.. 
   Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Platform Computing
   
   This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
   modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
   License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
   version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
   
   This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
   Lesser General Public License for more details.
   
   You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
   License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
   Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
   

The pyocci package
==================
This part of ssf provides a [OCCI]_ implementation.

Installation
------------
The pyssf package is registered on the [PYPI]_ website therefore a simple
installation can be done by:

    easy_install pyssf

Another option is to directly download the source distribution from the
[PYPI]_ website. If doing so unzip the file and you can run all examples with
the include demo.sh script.

Required to run all the demos and work with pyocci is that the [TORNADO]_
package is installed. This can be done by:

    easy_install tornado

Demos
-----
If you are using the source distribution the demos can be run by using the
demo.sh script. 2 demos are available: One for keyvalues, a simple job
submission and a skeleton for the infrastructure model. After starting the
service you can point you're browser to http://localhost:8888 or use any
programming language or device which understands HTTP to interact with this
OCCI implementation.

The skeleton only needs to be bound to your hypervisor to create your own cloud
API. All state changes for actions and all needed backends are implemented.

If you have installed pyocci with the easy_install method go to the
dist-packages directory of your python installation and enter the
pyocci/examples directory. You'll find all the source files there. Now you can
start each of the demos by running the corresponding *_main.py script.

.. note::
    When setting the environmental variable PYOCCI_STYLE_SHEET to an absolute
    path of a CSS style sheet the HTML rendering will indeed look nice.

Usage
-----
After installation feel free to write your own backends for the pyocci module.
For examples see the files include with the installation. Normally they are
located in the dist-packages directory of your python installation when using
the easy_install method. If you have downloaded the source distribution feel
free to go to the directory pyocci/examples directly.

Extending
---------
You can easily extend the existing pyocci implementation with your own
renderings or security implementations. Again please review the examples, see
the tornado documentation for security related implementations, and dive into
the pyocci code to see how to write your own rendering.

.. [PYPI] pyssf on the pypi website - http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyssf
.. [TORNADO] Tornado website - http://www.tornadoweb.org/

